Welcome, in this video, we're going to continue setting up
our SSH authentication by entering our key into the GitHub interface.
In a previous step, we generated our public and private keys
and then we copied the contents of the "id_rsa.pub" file into our clipboard.
Now, let's head over to GitHub. From your account,
go to your profile and go to the drop down then go to settings.
When your personal settings come up, go to the menu item "SSH keys",
then click on "Add SSH key". When you do that a form will pop up at the bottom of the page.
Put in a descriptive tittle for this SSH key.
Remember that SSH keys are generally associated with a given computer or virtual machine.
I'm going to use the title "Training Macbook Pro"
since this is the machine I primarily use for all my training.
Then, go to the "Key" field. Once in the "key" field,
paste in the value that's currently in your clipboard.
Once you've done that, click on "Add key". Since this is a sensitive operation,
GitHub will prompt you for your GitHub log in before you can proceed;
this is just a double verification. Once you've done that,
GitHub should list this new key under your SSH keys, underneath personal settings.
If you did it wrong, you can always delete the key and start over.
However, let's check it out; let's see if this worked.
So, let's go back to our terminal, and to confirm that this machine that I'm currently on
is able to communicate with GitHub via SSH,
we're going to use the "ssh" command to try to log in.
Type "ssh -T git@github.com". Once you've done that press enter.
If you've never connected to GitHub before via SSH, you would be prompted
confirming whether or not you really want to connect. Type "yes".
You'll be prompted for your SSH key passphrase.
Sometimes it may be referred to as a password, but they're the same thing.
Since I'm on the Mac, I have the option of remembering this
passphrase or password in my keychain, and I'm going to do so,
since I don't like being prompted each time. Click OK, or press enter.
Once you've done that, SSH will attempt to connect, and then it will exit out to the terminal.
The last line is what's important; it should greet you by your username,
and then tell you that you have successfully authenticated, which is the important part.
But, GitHub does not provide shell access, which it explains.
That's ok, because don't need shell access; we just need to use the
SSH authentication process to log in, and we have just confirmed that.